Added lighthouse architecture page (#28)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/architecture/components/lighthouse/_index.en.md

---
title: "Lighthouse"
date: 2020-03-02T21:25:35+01:00
weight: 10
---

Lighthouse provides DNS discovery to Kubernetes clusters connected by [Submariner](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner) in multi-cluster connected environments. The solution is compatible with any CNI (Container Network Interfaces) plugin.

## Architecture
The below digram shows the basic Lighthouse architecture.

![Lighthouse Architecture](/images/lighthouse/architecture.png)

### Lighthouse Controller
This is the central discovery controller that gathers the information from the clusters, decides what information is to be shared and distributes the information as newly defined CRDs (Kubernetes custom resources).

The Lighthouse controller uses the kubefed directory of clusters through the [Admiral](https://github.com/submariner-io/admiral) library. It connects to each cluster and listens for Service CRUD. Once it is notified that a new Service is created and needs to be distributed, it creates a MultiClusterService CR which is distributed to all the clusters that are part of the control plane. The flow for update and delete will be similar.

#### WorkFlow

> The typical workflow is as follows.

Author: Removed typical.

- Lighthouse controller registers with Admiral into the kubefed list of clusters for cluster join and unjoin events.
- Once it is notified about a join event, it retrieves the credentials from Admiral and registers for a call back on Service creation with a shared informer.

> - When a new Service is created in a cluster, the Lighthouse controller will be notified about it and it will create the Lighthouse CRD with the Service info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When notified of a new Service created, it creates a MultiClusterService resource with the Service info and distributes it to all the clusters that are connected to the kubefed  control plane.
- When notified of a Service deleted, its info is removed from the MultiClusterService resource and re-distributed.
```

> - The controller with the help of Admiral distributes the CRD to all the clusters that have joined.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this line and other references to Admiral - I don't think talking about Admiral adds any value - it's really an implementation detail.

![Lighthouse Controller WorkFlow](/images/lighthouse/controllerWorkFlow.png)
<!-- Image Source: /images/lighthouse/source/controllerWorkFlow.vsdx  -->

### Lighthouse Plugin

> Lighthouse plugin can be installed as an external plugin for CoreDNS, and will work along with the default Kubernetes plugin. It uses the MultiClusterService CRD that is distributed by the controller for DNS resolution. The below diagram indicates a high-level architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lighthouse plugin can be installed as an external plugin for CoreDNS, and will work along with the default Kubernetes plugin. It uses the MultiClusterService resources that are distributed by the controller for DNS resolution. The below diagram indicates a high-level architecture.
```

![Lighthouse Plugin Architecture](/images/lighthouse/lighthousePluginArchitecture.png)

#### WorkFlow

> The typical workflow is as follows.

Reviewer: typical?

Author: removed.

- A pod tries to resolve a Service name.

> - The Kubernetes plugin in CoreDNS will try to resolve the request. If no records are present the request will be sent to Lighthouse plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Kubernetes plugin in CoreDNS will first try to resolve the request. If no records are present the request will be sent to Lighthouse plugin.
```

> - MultiClusterService CRD has built a cache, which was distributed by Lighthouse controller. The Lighthouse plugin will try to resolve the request according to its cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Lighthouse plugin will use its MultiClusterService cache to try to resolve the request.
```

---
title: "Lighthouse"
date: 2020-03-02T21:25:35+01:00
weight: 10
---

Lighthouse provides DNS discovery to Kubernetes clusters connected by [Submariner](https://github.com/submariner-io/submariner) in multi-cluster connected environments. The solution is compatible with any CNI (Container Network Interfaces) plugin.

## Architecture
The below digram shows the basic Lighthouse architecture.

![Lighthouse Architecture](/images/lighthouse/architecture.png)

### Lighthouse Controller
This is the central discovery controller that gathers the information from the clusters, decides what information is to be shared and distributes the information as newly defined CRDs (Kubernetes custom resources).

> The Lighthouse controller will be running along with the [Admiral](https://github.com/submariner-io/admiral) control plane. It uses the API’s exposed by the Admiral to connect to each cluster and listen for Service CRUD. Once it is notified that a new Service is created and needs to be distributed, it creates the Lighthouse CRD and the same is distributed to all the clusters that are part of the control plane. The flow for update and delete will be similar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Lighthouse controller uses the kubefed directory of clusters through the [Admiral](https://github.com/submariner-io/admiral) library. It connects to each cluster and listens for Service CRUD. Once it is notified that a new Service is created and needs to be distributed, it creates a MultiClusterService CR which is distributed to all the clusters that are part of the control plane. The flow for update and delete will be similar.
```

Reviewer 2: Changes because there is no admiral service running side-by side, it's just an API

Reviewer 2: I would also add that currently we depend on kubefed, and it's deployed along the lighthouse controller, although in the future we plan to break the kubefed dependency and make the lighthouse controller completely distributed.

#### WorkFlow
The typical workflow is as follows.

> - Lighthouse controller registers with Admiral for cluster join and unjoin events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Lighthouse controller registers with Admiral into the kubefed list of clusters for cluster join and unjoin events.
```

- Once it is notified about a join event, it retrieves the credentials from Admiral and registers for a call back on Service creation with a shared informer.
- When a new Service is created in a cluster, the Lighthouse controller will be notified about it and it will create the Lighthouse CRD with the Service info.
- The controller with the help of Admiral distributes the CRD to all the clusters that have joined.

> ![Lighthouse Controller WorkFlow](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/master/docs/img/controllerWorkFlow.png)

Reviewer 2: Do we have the sources (non-png) for those diagrams? can we add a comment with a link to those for just in case we need to edit them in the future?

You can add comments with :

```
<!-- this is my comment -->
```

### Lighthouse Plugin

> Lighthouse plugin can be installed as an external plugin for CoreDNS, and will work along with the default Kubernetes plugin. It uses the Lighthouse CRD that is distributed by the controller for DNS resolution. The below diagram indicates a high-level architecture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lighthouse plugin can be installed as an external plugin for CoreDNS, and will work along with the default Kubernetes plugin. It uses the MultiClusterService CRD that is distributed by the controller for DNS resolution. The below diagram indicates a high-level architecture.
```

Reviewer 2: At some point it was called "MulticlusterService CRD, not lighthouse CRD"

![Lighthouse Plugin Architecture](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/master/docs/img/lighthousePluginArchitecture.png)

#### WorkFlow
The typical workflow is as follows.

- A pod tries to resolve a Service name.
- The Kubernetes plugin in CoreDNS will try to resolve the request. If no records are present the request will be sent to Lighthouse plugin.

> - Lighthouse CRD has built a cache, which was distributed by Lighthouse controller. The Lighthouse plugin will try to resolve the request according to its cache.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MultiClusterService CRD has built a cache, which was distributed by Lighthouse controller. The Lighthouse plugin will try to resolve the request according to its cache.
```

- If a record exists it will be returned, otherwise the plugin will pass the request to the next plugin registered in CoreDNS.

> ![Lighthouse CoreDNS WorkFlow](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/submariner-io/lighthouse/master/docs/img/coreDNSWorkFlow.png)

Reviewer 2: Same, do we have source for this document?

Thanks

## Setup development environment
You will need docker installed in your system, and at least 8GB of RAM.
Run:
```bash
   make e2e status=keep
```

## Testing

### To run end-to-end tests:
```bash
   make e2e
```

### To run unit tests:
```bash
   make test

> ```

Reviewer 2: This does not belong on the architecture guide.
```suggestion
```

### Lighthouse Controller
This is the central discovery controller that gathers the information from the clusters, decides what information is to be shared and distributes the information as newly defined CRDs (Kubernetes custom resources).

The Lighthouse controller uses [kubefed](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubefed) to discover clusters and to extract and distribute aggregated Service information used to perform DNS resolution.

#### WorkFlow
The workflow is as follows.

- Lighthouse controller registers to be notified when clusters join and unjoin the kubefed control plane.
- When notified about a join event, it retrieves the credentials from kubefed and registers a watch for Service creation and removal on that cluster.
- When notified of a new Service created, it creates a MultiClusterService resource with the Service info and distributes it to all the clusters that are connected to the kubefed  control plane.
- When notified of a Service deleted, its info is removed from the MultiClusterService resource and re-distributed.

> - The controller distributes the CRD to all the clusters that have joined.

Author: Removed the line.
